Helena Rouhe: Hello.
Helena Rouhe: How's it going,
casondra b: Okay, how are you
Doing all right.
Helena Rouhe: Did you check in through virtual clinic.
casondra b: For this yeah yeah okay why
Helena Rouhe: Oh, just because we get in trouble if people don't do
casondra b: Oh yeah, that's how I got the number
Helena Rouhe: Fantastic. Awesome. All right. Well, how was your weekend.
casondra b: It was okay. I didn't do a lot. I just laid around. No, you're
Helena Rouhe: You're getting ready for your big driver's test.
casondra b: Yes, hi drove this morning.
casondra b: Yeah.
casondra b: It was fine. Yeah, I've been very my housemates car like every so often and then he's, he was away this whole last week on vacation spring vacation so
casondra b: I drove today. And then I don't know. I don't like ask. I don't like bothering him like by asking to drive his car because he's like, I don't know. He's doing a master's degree in law and I feel like
casondra b: I don't want to. You just do that like you're already already doing a lot for me by taking me to the DMV and going with me to the car dealerships so
casondra b: But I feel confident about passing the test. I just feel like nervous.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah, well, yeah, it's a nerve wracking process.
casondra b: Yeah, well, there's a lot. I feel like there's a lot at stake right like I've been having to, you know, create sable and then come home, like two hours early and then work from home. The remaining two hours, which, like, thankfully, I'm able to do but
casondra b: It. I feel like it looks bad.
Helena Rouhe: Huh.
casondra b: You know, I don't even know if my manager knows, but it looks back to the other people on my team at least I think it does.
casondra b: And so
casondra b: Yeah, I don't like doing that and then like also if I fail. Like, that means I have to. It took I had to schedule disappointment on Thursday in December. And so, yeah. And so, um, I was like looking around for like up places in the area that would allow me to
casondra b: Schedule an appointment like this month and the closest one is Vallejo, that would they have openings like later this month.
casondra b: And that's like a 15 minute drive
casondra b: Or like 40 minutes or whatever.
casondra b: So I don't know if my housemate would be willing to, like, if I fail this take me all the way there. So that means like what another two, three months of us. Hmm. So
Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: But you're feeling pretty good.
casondra b: I mean I feel like I know the basics. I just worry that like I'm going to my minute panic and like
casondra b: Oh no, do something stupid.
Helena Rouhe: Well, I mean, do you, I don't even know if they still ask like for three point turns in parallel parking and all that kind of stuff that tends to be the stuff that gets people stressed out.
casondra b: I was in. Yeah. My instructor told me I wouldn't have to do parallel parking. And then also, like, three point turn Jesus Christ like this.
casondra b: Okay, so this morning when I drove it wasn't that great. I pulled out of the driveway and there's
casondra b: Our neighbors across the street or like constantly working on cars and they just, um, there's been a car that's been abandoned for like six months right in front of our house and then
casondra b: They recently left this like tow truck this like this crunchy rickety ass tow truck and it has, of course, like the big hook and it was
casondra b: parked on the other side. So one car here another car. Here are the big thing tow truck here and then I'm trying in our driveway isn't just like straight up. It's like
casondra b: It's up and then like to the side. And so I don't know what I did. I think I turn the wheel, the wrong way, as I was coming out because I ended up like like
casondra b: In between them, like one at me here. And then I was just like, Fuck my house me it was like this is messy. I was like, I know, I know. Backing up not my strong suit.
casondra b: It was hard to get out of
Helena Rouhe: It sounds like you gave yourself an unexpected challenge and managed to survive and not kill anything
casondra b: Right. I mean, he had to help me right like he was looking behind himself being like, go, go, go. Stop reverse Go Go Go look like
casondra b: Don't know. So I worry, something like that will happen because I wasn't even nervous that I just got
casondra b: Fucked up
casondra b: Oh, no.
casondra b: No, yeah, I'm a little worried
Helena Rouhe: Well, I think that you've been doing a good job of practicing it and at the end of the day, you know, you just need to do it and see what happens now.
Helena Rouhe: Is it also that you have to do the written as well or
casondra b: Pass the written test. I had to do that first order to get my permit so that I could learn
Helena Rouhe: Okay, yeah.
casondra b: So that part of the past.
Helena Rouhe: Well, we're going to think positive thoughts and hopefully it all goes well this is on Thursday.
casondra b: Yes, Thursday morning.
Okay.
Helena Rouhe: So should we talk about the eating stuff, or is there.
casondra b: Something
Helena Rouhe: To talk about
casondra b: No. Let's talk about that.
Helena Rouhe: So what are you noticing.
casondra b: So like
casondra b: Um,
casondra b: So yeah i mean it's it's obviously just being Hyper Conscious of like calories and then like that turns into
casondra b: It, it's hard, right, because like having been 100 pounds like you kind of memorize the numbers and those numbers never go away, they're just they're memorizing your head and
casondra b: So I was memorizing them. And then I started to like put it into like a specific calorie counter thing and I was doing that for a couple days. And I was like, I need to stop.
casondra b: This is one time consuming and to very unhealthy and so I stopped. But now I have like a mental tracker in my head, and I don't know if it's worse because like I don't know the exact numbers, but I can guesstimate and I'm
casondra b: I always guesstimate higher than what I think it is just to be safe.
casondra b: So we're
Helena Rouhe: Are we calorie counting. Is that what you're talking about.
casondra b: Yes. Okay.
Helena Rouhe: And you have a certain number of calories that you think you need to be at in order to keep your weight or get 200 or what are we
casondra b: Yeah, it's, it's a certain number to to maintain. But then, I've noticed that
casondra b: Because I've only weighed myself twice since like it I since the thoughts have become really bad and I noticed that you know my wife didn't go up it like definitely went down, but I figured it was water weight because of the amount that I went down.
casondra b: Yeah, it's just
casondra b: It's hard for me to not think about it, it's like constant. Like, it's me, it's like it's like always.
casondra b: Going in the back of my head like this, this number than this number than this number and then like factoring in things like how many calories are in alcohol and then I like
casondra b: Last week I was like okay well I'm not going to drink these amount of days because I don't want the calories from alcohol, not because I didn't want to drink less, you know. So there was that
casondra b: And I don't know, I don't have like a
casondra b: Yeah, I don't know. I'm just trying not to like weigh myself but then that doesn't seem to help
casondra b: It's almost it's almost worse when i when i don't weigh myself because when I was weighing myself every day I would get discouraged and then I would like binge or just like you know probably eat a normal amount
casondra b: At least like historically. That's what I would do, I haven't like habitually weighed myself in a long time.
casondra b: But then like the thing I'm worried about is that like this is not
casondra b: Something that can be maintained. Like, I know that it's a snowball, and I know the snowball leads to a place where I begin
casondra b: Where I'm like literally starving and then I will do things like eat in my sleep because I have a history of sleepwalking. And that definitely started happening when I when I reached a certain weight.
casondra b: And then the bingeing starts and then the purging starts and then like that is just eating out of trash cans stealing food, like all of that, like,
casondra b: I know that that's where this leads, which is why I'm like, Why can't, why can't I see that and just be like, just stop because I guess in my mind, I'm like, well, if I never get below this way. I'll be fine.
casondra b: And it's that's still not a great way to think, because that's not true either because I guess if I ever made it to that way. It would be like well
casondra b: A couple more pounds wouldn't hurt. You know, like it's just like it's a snowball snowball and I don't know how to I don't know how to stop it, because for the longest time
casondra b: Like I said I'd never gotten any type of treatment for it. I kind of just was like 100 pounds for a long time between 100 and hundred and 10 for a long time in high school. And then when I got to college. I gained a lot of it back and then lost it all again.
casondra b: And then I was like, Well, I want to have a social life of some sort. And so I was just, you know, drinking for the first time in my life, like alcohol and then smoking and then that would give me an appetite. So I gave a lot of it back, but then
casondra b: You know, I started doing well oxy cotton and shit like that and then heroin later on and then ever since.
casondra b: Yeah, what's once I started doing heroin like even smoking it once I started smoking it. I didn't really think about it at all, because all of my energy
casondra b: Physical and mental was just wrapped up in this other thing. And so I did gain quite a bit. Well, not quite a bit of weight like wanting to be realistic. I gained like I was like 148 pounds, which is like totally normal for my weight and height but um
casondra b: I think my like
casondra b: I don't even know what my body's averages. I wanted to say it's like around between like 330 and 338 ish but
casondra b: Yeah, I don't know. Then, then once I gave a dope. It was like fine for a long time, like for a long time. I was like, Okay, I'm not even thinking about this. I'm not even worried about this and then
casondra b: I lost all that weight without trying. And I think that that was a result of the pancreatitis. I think that was a symptom of that coming
casondra b: Because I had no appetite. I would try to eat, and I would feel like nauseous, like, Ooh, is this taste gross like how food days when you have the flu and that lasted like two or three weeks and I lost a shit ton of weight a shit ton of weight. Like, I probably got down to like
casondra b: I don't know. Hundred and 20 hundred and 25 and then I got pancreatitis. I got very sick.
casondra b: And then after pic retires I gained, you know, maybe 10 pounds back
casondra b: And
casondra b: And then shortly after I came back from the hospital is when I heard my housemate purging and it was like a light switch.
casondra b: It was like
casondra b: From from not really thinking because even, even when I was going through that process of like losing all that weight in my head I was like this is not good. And I don't want this, but this is just what's happening right now.
casondra b: And then when I came back from the hospital and I, you know, was eating and getting it back. I was like okay with it like I wasn't thinking about it too hard.
casondra b: But then I heard that you know her doing that. And then I that whole thing happened. And I just, I don't know why. Ever since then it's just been like an obsessive
casondra b: Yeah, an obsessive thing even though I like after because it happened twice and I confronted her and she ignored. Like I texted her about because I didn't want to embarrass her
Helena Rouhe: Right.
casondra b: And then she ignored me and did it again and then I just like I was like okay well apparently texting her and trying to be
casondra b: Upfront does not work. So I'm just going to completely shut down because I didn't know how to handle it. And that's not the right mature way to handle it. But I was having trouble.
casondra b: With how I was feeling about it and I was mad and
casondra b: So I just like stopped talking to her, I just stopped even looking at her and I think she got the message because she hasn't done it again, at least not while I'm home.
casondra b: Which is fine, I guess, I don't know, obviously I don't think she's she stopped completely, but like
casondra b: I don't know.
casondra b: That, like, really, that really triggered something in me and it has
casondra b: Been
casondra b: Like it's hard it's like like ups and downs, I guess, like there are better days and others. But, like, ever since then, I have just been like obsessing
Helena Rouhe: And that's been a couple of weeks now. We're about a month or
Oh,
casondra b: You want in a month.
casondra b: Yeah, maybe two months. Okay. And, like, in the last month it's gotten like worse. Okay.
Helena Rouhe: So do you feel like it's because it's just the snowball is building momentum, or is there anything else that's antagonize to the last month.
casondra b: I mean, that really set me off and then
casondra b: I guess maybe
casondra b: Because when I first started doing this. It was because I was in
casondra b: This is gonna sound so stupid. The whole thing.
casondra b: I've always I remember like I've always had like thoughts like, oh, I'm like, I remember the very first like disordered thought i had i was like 11 eating like a pizza lunch trouble.
casondra b: On a, like a, you know, on a leather chair at my mom's boyfriend's house that was the first disorder thought that I had. But the first real
casondra b: Actions that I took when I was like 16 and I was in what I thought was a relationship. Turns out he was very gay and just using me and he was like kind of chubby and he told me, like we had a very unhealthy relationship really unhealthy.
casondra b: And he would. It was like there was nothing physical about it. It was mostly online and then like even when we were in person at school like he would. It was just different, like I could sense that it was different but I
casondra b: I didn't really understand what was happening then you know
casondra b: And he was he was a little overweight and he's like, you know, I want to lose weight. Let's do it together. And I was like, cool. Yeah. And then I just
casondra b: lost so much weight and it got to the point where he was like, you know, you've lost too much weight. It's making me feel bad about my progress. So I don't want to talk to you anymore. I don't even know. Now if that was like the real reason
casondra b: I'm also going through
casondra b: All of these other things. And I was being very clear to him that like this relationship was making me feel
casondra b: Like a certain type of way. And then also, all the things happening at home like I was very suicidal. At this time, like, you know, trying to, you know,
casondra b: Not only hurting myself but like trying to kill myself. And like all this, so like it could have he just said that to me, but I think it may have been multiple reasons, looking back
casondra b: But
casondra b: By that time, I was like 105 pounds and I was like okay so now I don't even have my best friend anymore.
casondra b: But I remember when I first started it like the how easy it was to lose the weight and how good it made me feel all that to say this, that it made me feel good and it made me feel like not good, like, oh,
casondra b: I mean, at the time, it was like oh yes I'm doing something and maybe he will
casondra b: He will love me if I do that, like, yes, that was there but also it was like, look at me do this. Let me do this so effortlessly. It was like proven to myself that I actually had looking back at the time I was like this is not a control thing. Looking back, it was a control.
casondra b: Mm hmm. Um,
casondra b: Because everything else was so out of control. But then that, but then it, it became out of control. I don't know if I lost the
casondra b: grip on it. But it became it became so out of control and something I was so ashamed of, and I always thought, oh, if I could just, you know, be anorexic, and not have to deal with the blame me.
casondra b: And I always remember thinking that, like, believe me, it was dirty anorexia was like clean
Man.
casondra b: That's not true. Obviously, but I think that like now having the obsessive thoughts and then acting on them has gotten me to this mental state where I'm like,
casondra b: Oh, this could be nice, you know, like losing weight felt so good. The last time, like maybe I could just lose a couple pounds and feel good about it. You know, like it's, I don't know.
casondra b: I don't know. I'm just trying to like think through it. Maybe that
casondra b: Maybe it's just that I fucking hate myself. Maybe it's that it's probably that
casondra b: This is just another way to, like, it's not about the heroin. It's not about the food. It's not about the self harm. It's about the fact that I fucking hate myself and I can't, I can't stand to be in my own skin like it's probably that
Helena Rouhe: So it's still the case. I know that that's how you felt
Your first
casondra b: I mean,
Helena Rouhe: tamper at all.
casondra b: I thought so. But then, here we are.
Helena Rouhe: And can't both be true that it could be maybe not as bad as it once was. And the way you think about yourself, but also that you're struggling right now.
casondra b: Sure, but like, it's always felt like this, right, it's not it's not like the substance or the behavior and the fact that I just, I just need to be hurting myself like that's never changed. And I don't know how to address that, like, I don't know if I've gotten just like
casondra b: So used to that feeling you. I don't know why that's comfortable for me well.
Helena Rouhe: You have trained yourself to get comfortable with it.
Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: So Remind me again why it's important for you to have the dog.
casondra b: Yeah, I mean, that's another reason why I'm like upset with myself.
casondra b: Because like if I ever got to a point where I couldn't take care of her right i would really, really hate myself right
casondra b: Sorry, I said something, you know,
Helena Rouhe: We do need outside motivators to help us get through, you know, our internal bullshit to we can get to a point where we can internally motivate ourselves so
Helena Rouhe: I think it's great that she's there and that you do kind of rotate your schedule and life around her because she grounds you in a way that nobody else and nothing else camp.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah. And you knew that. You knew that you needed to get
Helena Rouhe: You know her in your life so that you could have something to keep you from snowballing out of control.
Helena Rouhe: But there's still a little bit of a snowball so it wasn't the end all be all and you knew that, too.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah, she had to kind of get to a place where you could get her a little bit more stable.
Helena Rouhe: So that you could take care of yourself.
Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: I think that's kind of where we're at now she's in a better place. And she's doing better, not all sorted out yet, but she's certainly much better than she was.
casondra b: Right, yeah.
Helena Rouhe: So now you can kind of fall apart a little bit and take care of yourself and she's going to be okay. While you do that.
Helena Rouhe: That's the normal process for us as human beings to kind of be in crisis have something stabilizes. And then once we're a little bit stable or once that that stabilizing forces a little bit stable.
Helena Rouhe: Then we go you know we fall apart. Again, I don't know if it's crisis, but we fall apart because now it's safe to fall apart. Whereas before, you just needed to pull it together because it wasn't safe to fall apart.
casondra b: Well, maybe.
Helena Rouhe: So if that's true will operate under that assumption.
Helena Rouhe: Else if there is something about your current situation that allows you to feel even just a little bit safe to fall apart, then that means that you can start kind of finding ways to take care of yourself, not for you, but for safe.
Helena Rouhe: And and then you're going to, we'll just chip away at it a little bit at a time, and I think you're right on all those different levels. I think that behaviors are just symptoms of thought process that
Helena Rouhe: It's really about the thought process more than anything else. So
Helena Rouhe: The more you can tackle that, or be aware of it and just maybe don't tackle it but just shut it down.
Helena Rouhe: Or just put it in check.
casondra b: I just don't know how like sometimes like it just feels so natural, you know, it's like a default to that.
casondra b: That I don't know how to even begin to approach that like, how do I even begin to like care enough about I guess like
Helena Rouhe: What you do right you do enough to be here because you care about sable so you care you care about sable so you know you need to take care of yourself to take care of her.
casondra b: Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: And and that's great. That's all we need. We just need something external out of you to pull you out of you enough to make just just stop the snowball right just slow the snowball down
Helena Rouhe: And then we can start to kind of break down the snowball, we're not going to unravel it. We're just going to start slowly chipping away at it and that's going to feel really strange because this has worked for you for so long.
casondra b: Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: And it has been its own stabilizing force.
casondra b: It wasn't sure rose
Helena Rouhe: And so to take that away is going to feel like, why am I going to take that away. This is solid. I know this works for me. This keeps me XYZ
Helena Rouhe: And now.
Helena Rouhe: If I'm going to take that away of wtf What am I going to do well.
Helena Rouhe: We have to take it away very slowly, while we're inserting other things that makes sense for you to feel okay about it.
casondra b: Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: So we're gonna, you know, we're going to just counterbalance till eventually it's not going to be such a go to for you. I think you're always going to have those
Helena Rouhe: Thoughts and feelings on some level, but the goal is to get you to a place where you don't react to them and you don't engage in them.
casondra b: Yeah. What I found that's like really difficult like lately is
casondra b: Like the days when I don't decide what what because I have to make the decision to not drink.
casondra b: Right, I have to make that decision. I'm not going to drink these days when i when i on those days, especially when I it's fine until I get home.
casondra b: And then like two hours into being home when I'm like just settling down or like trying to watch TV or trying to read. It's like this like feeling of
casondra b: I guess like anxiety. I don't know. It almost feels like when something's when something bad has happened. And you know how like when something horrible has happened. And it's like, like the best thing that I can compare it to is like
casondra b: When you're in like middle school and you do something embarrassing and you're just like that that like that like horrible, like, end of the world, feeling. Um, and then and then
casondra b: What it feels like is like when you wake up and those few seconds before you remember exactly what it is you're like something's wrong.
casondra b: It's like that. It's like something's wrong, but I can't ever be like, oh, it's this because there's been nothing that's happened that would that would that would that would make sense that I'm having this feeling of like, you know,
casondra b: So I don't know how to deal with that, like, I don't know.
casondra b: Like I kind of just sit with it. But then like on those days that I sit with it. That's when the obsessing about food is worse, you know, it's, that's why I'm like, it's not the food. It's not the alcohol. It's not even the heroin. It's the. It's that feeling of like
Helena Rouhe: Having to deal with yourself.
casondra b: Yeah. And I've always thought that I was really good at dealing with myself because I don't, I don't have a lot of friends and I did that on purpose. When I was on heroin, because I didn't think it was fair to be friends with people.
casondra b: Or to build relationships with people when I had such a severe problem.
casondra b: And then now I just can't read that on top of like the fact that I have a lot of trouble relating to people. I don't have a lot of patience for a lot of other people.
casondra b: Not that I'm like better than them. But I just like can't, I can't, like, pretend to be okay. Sometimes, or I can't pretend to be like this is gonna sound shitty but I can't pretend to be interested in in their problems.
casondra b: Or their happiness is or whatever it is that they have going on.
casondra b: Like superficially, I can, but I can't. It's hard for me to to care.
Helena Rouhe: About how you were raised.
casondra b: I guess I just when I was a child I desk a child, all the way up until I would say
casondra b: Jesus until I was like 24 I was desperate for somebody to love me and i would i would i would suffocate anybody who would come close enough.
casondra b: With that need. And then, and then it got to a point or. I was like, Wow, I really not only damaged those relationships but damage those people in that process.
casondra b: And I didn't gain anything out of it. And they also didn't make me feel better about myself or about the situation. I was in, I just did a lot of damage and then
casondra b: Right when I thought I had what I wanted, I, I would realize this isn't what I want. And I would just lash out and be awful if the things that I did to like some of my exes. I just can't even
casondra b: Like it's horrible. I did some horrible fucked up shit to them and
casondra b: Like shit that they'll never come back from i don't think like they'll never
casondra b: Be able to look at a real intimate relationship closely again because of the shit that I pulled like and I was doing it as a way to be like, All right. How much will you put up with like you say you love me. How much will you put up with them, you know, it was very consciously that
casondra b: And it felt out of control. Like, why am I doing these things because I would feel bad. Afterwards, seeing like how
casondra b: They were reaction that I could get like I was trying to get the the best the best reaction that I could out of them, but then when I saw that, I would feel bad about it.
casondra b: But then I would do it again and like none of those relationships made me happy. And so, I realized, you know, I can't
casondra b: I can't do this to people that's that's immature and that's mean and I don't
casondra b: So I don't want to pretend that I'm into this relationship, just so that somebody can say that they care, just so that I can ask them how much like that's all of those relationships. That's what exactly what every single one of those were
casondra b: At least as an adult, so I don't know now how to have a normal relationship. I don't know what a normal friendship is or even if I'm interested in that kind of shit. I definitely don't want an intimate relationship.
casondra b: I realized that I put myself in a lot of relationships with with men, boys, you know, the male species and I didn't like that.
casondra b: It was just what was easiest to acquire and then I would like put myself through the sex which felt awful and horrible and like a chore, and I feel like that fucked me up a little bit like dealing with that and like trying to cater to their weird fetishes, and like
casondra b: Like now I feel like I could never have a normal sexual relationship like not especially not with a man and I don't even think I like women like
casondra b: I just could never imagine having an intimate relationship with somebody like that's just like too much. And that's like to gross. Like, I don't want to share my body with anybody. And I also don't want to share my bed. I don't wanna share my food. I don't want to share my time.
casondra b: Yeah. So that leaves friendships and I don't know.
casondra b: It. I don't really want that either. I don't know. It seems like a lot of effort, you know,
Helena Rouhe: Again, you were raised by people who this is what you absorbed, this is, this is the, these are the kind of relationships that you grew up was so
Helena Rouhe: It doesn't surprise me at the least that you're verbalizing things like this because this is how you were raised, so of course you're going to continue the pattern, but what you are doing differently is you're saying this is not okay.
Helena Rouhe: I don't want to be this.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah, so now you're going to be what we call the generational breaker. But that means it's going to be a lot of work, because there's, you know, some nature versus nurture stuff going on here and a little bit of
Helena Rouhe: Wiring that happens embryonic Lee there's wiring that happens when you're very young and you're raised in these kind of environments. There's certainly a ton of training.
Helena Rouhe: You're very smart person and you take on you know you you you train. Well, so you have been an astute student of this behavior for a very long time. And so it's understandable that you would feel a little bit lost that the idea that this is not
Helena Rouhe: You know you don't want to behave this way. But the idea of behaving differently is a you know like what does that look like because you have
Helena Rouhe: No good examples and you certainly have an experienced a good example which
Helena Rouhe: Is really how we learn.
casondra b: Yeah, I've never had a normal relationship like I've only just recently had like a normal friendship with my housemate gibberish and like sort of with my old coworker all about like
Helena Rouhe: They feel pretty Ron pretty new still
casondra b: Yeah, I wouldn't. Yeah, I wouldn't run into a burning building, necessarily. Okay.
Helena Rouhe: So this is where I'm a huge fan of the animal connection.
casondra b: I have come across
Helena Rouhe: People who have experienced your stuff and not liked animals and that is
Helena Rouhe: That feels very challenging to be able to help them connect because then it's about what do you like and that becomes really challenging if it's not another living being.
casondra b: Yeah, you know,
Helena Rouhe: So the fact that you love your dog that you have a dog and that you've been working through this process is huge because it gives you the opportunity to start figuring out what kind of person you want to be just in general.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah, to her into your friend gather and just, you know, you're very conscientious about your workmates all of that is really hopeful and good
Helena Rouhe: And I think you just need to build some confidence in these relationships. You don't need any other stuff. You just need to find ways to find something neutral. You know, I think positive or good about is maybe too much right now for
Helena Rouhe: You if you can feel neutral about it. If you can feel okay about what you're contributing in these different situations, then that's the stuff you need to hold on to.
casondra b: Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: And when you start finding yourself getting really triggered, for lack of a better word, obsessive wanting to be distracted in this negative stuff.
Helena Rouhe: The only way to shift that is to find a healthy distraction. So maybe the dog needs a lot more walks. Maybe you're going to go check in with gab or maybe you're gonna
Helena Rouhe: If you're at work, you're going to check in with a workmate you know it's it's whatever you can do to distract yourself and it's the best way to initially shift things until you can get enough
Helena Rouhe: Of a foundation to do other stuff because there's lots of other things you can do. But in the beginning, it's just, I'm I can't even stop this thought process. So how am I going to just put energy somewhere else until it slows down enough for me to do. And think of other things.
casondra b: Yeah, we don't make sense.
Helena Rouhe: And music music you like music so you know that, you know, all those kinds of things to kind of shift gears.
Helena Rouhe: And just giving yourself permission to shift gears and that's going to be weird because part of us like no, it's like any other self harm behavior we get, you know, there's a bit of an adrenaline rush that comes with it.
Helena Rouhe: So I'm sure at some point they're going
Helena Rouhe: To find the adrenaline rush that comes with the emotional beating up and you'll probably find my guess is that it's way stronger than physically hurting yourself, you know, the emotional piece becomes really hard to let go of
casondra b: I mean, yeah, I feel like of all the things that I've shifted through like heroin had the worst physical grip, but like the eating disorder stuff had the worst mental grip for sure. Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: Well, the hard part is, is that you need to eat. So it's not something you can just stop.
Helena Rouhe: Or ignore you have to
Helena Rouhe: Pay attention to your basic needs. And that's annoying because everything about it is about beating yourself up against basic needs.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah, so the very thing you need to do is the very thing you don't want to do
casondra b: Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: And you're right, it's not about the food is not about the alcohol. It's not about that stuff. It's about the thought process that drives you to then use those things to beat yourself up.
Helena Rouhe: Just a different form of cutting you
Know,
Helena Rouhe: So that's huge. I mean that that's a lot of the work right there is just having that awareness. Now the next hard part is allowing yourself to start
Helena Rouhe: Coming up with things just to shortlist four or five things that you can do to distract yourself and and keep yourself on that list and
Helena Rouhe: There, it's not a. It's not a willpower thing, and yet there is a if you have a desire to be different than you can be different if you have a desire to not be different than you won't be different. Right, so
Helena Rouhe: It's not a willpower thing. It's a allow for a different shift so that you can experience something else. So then you can build on that.
casondra b: Yeah, I mean it make sense. I've always like, I don't know, every time people are like aware or like, I guess, admitting it or awareness is the first step I felt like I've always had. Well, not always, but I felt like I've had the awareness for several years and like
casondra b: I just, I don't know. Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: Part of the awareness is also the part of the joy of beating yourself up.
casondra b: Or this is going to be a really good one.
Right.
Helena Rouhe: So now we've got to go past that kind of fun part of the awareness to the I can't take care of stable if I don't take care of myself part which is going to be really annoying.
Helena Rouhe: It always reminds me of the stupid airplane cards, you know, put the
Helena Rouhe: Little arrow thing on myself before somebody else. Right. Yeah, you just want to be like
Helena Rouhe: Oh, PS, that's such a bunch of BS. But it is true. I mean, we can't take care of others. If we don't take care of ourselves. So as annoying as that is, there's truth to that. And the other really annoying phrase is one day me minute at a time.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah. And when you're struggling, you have to allow yourself to know that you just got to get through the next minute the next five minutes. The next 10 minutes, whatever it is, shorten that time create those distractions.
Helena Rouhe: Maybe you put alarms on your phone, you know, little timers and you just, okay, I'm going to go do this for 10 minutes or whatever.
Helena Rouhe: You just keep trying enough stuff to where eventually the desire to do something will tamper enough to where you you don't have to do it. Or maybe you do it a lot less. Yeah.
casondra b: Oh yeah, I was like, I don't know. I was hoping that
casondra b: I guess like I don't know, there's like a lot of there's been a few times in my life where I'm like, oh, I hope this thing will will eat up my
casondra b: My bank of obsessive thoughts like, that's kind of how it feels like I have a, I have a huge almost limitless bank.
casondra b: Of obsessive thoughts and it doesn't matter what I want to fixate on but it has to be fixated on something and like there's been times where I'm like, oh, I hope this can be my fixation and then it is for a little while and then it's not
casondra b: Like
casondra b: Yeah, I don't know how to how to address the the over and over and over and over. I guess just like one minute at a time. But like, yeah, that kind of seems like you know obsessing and yeah
Helena Rouhe: I think though the point of it is that these the obsessing. And all of that is is a avoidance of you.
Helena Rouhe: And what you need to do is give yourself permission to deal with you.
Helena Rouhe: And that feeling of, oh no, is you may be relaxed enough to where you can just sit with yourself not sound like total psychology bullshit, but
Helena Rouhe: You know, just sit with yourself enough to be okay with being you. And that sounds really simple and feels impossible, which is why you want something else to distract yourself because you're not okay with you.
casondra b: Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: And then the obsessive thoughts and everything come in. So, allowing yourself to okay it's coming. As soon as you feel even the nuance of it.
Helena Rouhe: I gotta go do something else.
Helena Rouhe: Go for a walk, go brush the dog whatever do something else. Get out of there and come up with a list and you do something for 10 minutes and you do something else for another 10 minutes and you just ride out that wave of disaster.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah impending doom all those different feelings and thoughts and then eventually it's going to calm down, because it always does. And then you're going to go to sleep, and you're going to wake up and deal with it the next day. And eventually, it's not going to be as as much
casondra b: Yeah, I mean, that make sense to me. I guess I don't know. I guess I was not even thinking that like
casondra b: I mean I what I'm trying to say is, I guess, I think it was naive of me to think that like, oh, I am okay with
casondra b: Like I truly thought like I am okay with with sitting by myself. I've been by myself for so long. And look, I gave up heroin so easy. You know, like
casondra b: That that was that was honestly, aside from the first day when I was switching medications that I had all those withdrawal symptoms is easy. After that, yeah, it was really easy. And I think that like all this rhetoric about like
casondra b: Oh, heroin is like the worst drug in the world and like it's the hardest thing to give up and done it a de like I'm sure that's true for a lot of people, but it wasn't true for me and like I think maybe I was just being arrogant by thinking like
casondra b: Like oh, like, look how easy that was, I must be fine.
Helena Rouhe: I don't think it's arrogance. I think it's, I hope I'm fine. I don't want to deal with this other part of me. I hope this is what it was.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: If it's not that, then I have to deal with this other stuff these core beliefs. These things that you've been raised to believe
Helena Rouhe: 90% of it is training. Okay, whether it was genetic training or physical training or emotional training. It's not who you are. But you've been trained from a very from from amoeba state.
Helena Rouhe: To think and feel these things. And so you are going to have to actively work against it. The good news is it's not going to take nearly as long to work against us, as it was for you to be trained
casondra b: I
casondra b: Know,
Helena Rouhe: I know that for a fact.
casondra b: You're just have to be like hyper aware of it. It's just like, I guess like then like the other part of that is like that makes me fucking mad, like all of this makes me mad like that I have to even deal with this, you know, totally
casondra b: Like I didn't ask like, I remember my mom would say shit to me sometimes. And I'm like, look, bitch. I didn't ask to be alive, like right
casondra b: YOU DIDN'T YOU WERE BEING CHEATED ON THE WHOLE time when you purposely got pregnant. Like, I don't know what you think was going to happen or like I was going to pop out and be your best friend or whatever. But like, like you were not okay. Before this, you were not okay after it. Yeah, yeah.
casondra b: Wow.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah, you're right. You should be mad.
Helena Rouhe: But don't take it out on yourself.
Helena Rouhe: Which is the safe.
Helena Rouhe: Solution for very long time.
casondra b: Yeah, cuz I don't like hurting other people also she's dead. Wow. So, like, what can I even do
Helena Rouhe: Well, I mean, you could go pee on wherever sure finishes on
casondra b: My grandma's house. I'm not gonna like grandma's
Helena Rouhe: You like you needed to light.
Helena Rouhe: A little moment there for a second. Maybe you don't take it out on the driving instructor and you're not going to take it out on some random human being that you come across, but it's okay for you to be mad.
Helena Rouhe: And it's okay for you to be pissed off at how this came to be. And so maybe part of this process is also going to be about finding a safe way to be mad, meaning that you know I know it sounds ridiculous, but there's something to be said for yelling into a pillow or beating the crap out
casondra b: Right.
Helena Rouhe: So I think soft I'm you know like
Helena Rouhe: You know, get it out because it's Better out than in
Helena Rouhe: Right. So this is where you can purge because you weren't able to purge in a safe way. So you found other ways to purge, but this
Helena Rouhe: Is
Helena Rouhe: Where that purge behavior needs to happen so that at some point, you're not going to ever be okay with it. But you're going to make peace with it enough that it doesn't have to torture you like it has been
Yeah.
casondra b: Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: And I don't think that you've been delusional, or any of those other things I think that you have developed a very good survival instinct to just suck it up.
Helena Rouhe: And I'm just going to compartmentalize this and I'm just going to actor make it okay because I can't, and nor do you need to deal with it. There are people who walk through this entire life without ever dealing with the big stuff they need to deal with.
casondra b: Yeah, and like
Helena Rouhe: Turning it on
casondra b: Part of me is like, Oh, I can just not deal with it and be fine. But like, obviously that's not true.
Helena Rouhe: Well, frankly, I'm glad that's not true, because then if it doesn't come out in this way it's going to come out and psychosomatic way. And this is when people get cancer early on, or they get other autoimmune diseases. I mean,
Helena Rouhe: There is no escaping it, you're going to have to face it one way or another. So, at least it's pretty obvious. And you can manage it in a way to help you work through it so that you and sable can have nice long lives together.
Yeah.
casondra b: Oh, yeah.
casondra b: No part of me is just like just get more dogs until you have no time in the day.
Helena Rouhe: Well, that's true. But then, you know, there is something to be said for balance.
casondra b: I know, I know. I'm not going to get another dog until like like at least like six years. Okay.
Helena Rouhe: So we have some time.
Yes.
Helena Rouhe: I don't think it's gonna take you six years to work through all of this.
casondra b: No, but I know I think it'll take me six years to save up for a house. I'm not going to get another dog and like have at least a house that I'm living by myself. Okay. I like the plan, you know,
Helena Rouhe: So you're not broken. There's nothing wrong with you. You're not a bad person. You have survived a lot of bullshit and you have done a good job of
Helena Rouhe: Identifying when you were taking taking it out on other people. And then unfortunately you listened to your training and you took it out on yourself.
Helena Rouhe: And now you know that that's not okay, either. So now you're in this annoying status of I know this isn't okay I know I need to do something different. Now I just have to figure out how to put that into
Helena Rouhe: Play and they're going to be moments where you're going to do great. And they're going to be moments when you're going to suck. And that is just this part of the learning curve.
Helena Rouhe: So when you have a hard time. That doesn't mean that you're a terrible person and that you're. It's all bad. And it's not worth it just means that that particular moment is harder than others. And you're just going to have to white knuckle it until you get through it.
casondra b: Yeah, it feels like I've been white knuckling through my whole fucking life.
Helena Rouhe: You have you right
Helena Rouhe: But you've been doing it. And, you know, doing a lot of unhealthy things are there to yourself or others. And now you're going to white knuckle
Helena Rouhe: It in a different way, you're going to look at the stuff that you've been trying to just survive.
Helena Rouhe: And by looking at it and managing it. It's going to have less impact on you down the line. And you're also going to have better coping skills so that when stuff comes up for you. You're not going to take it out on yourself or somebody else.
casondra b: Yeah, that's, I guess, like that's the biggest thing like developing coping skills. I've always like heard yet developed coping skills, but I don't know what that what those are for my particular like I know
casondra b: What works for other people. Right. But like I don't know what really works for me. And sometimes I feel like I find something like yeah not really obsessive with embroidery like a couple months ago, but then I like totally burnt out on it and
casondra b: You know, so it's like obviously I NEED A HOBBY but like I can't find anything I fuckin like
Helena Rouhe: Well, it's right now. It's about healthy distraction. So
Helena Rouhe: All that means is that it's not going to hurt you or somebody else. Okay, so
Helena Rouhe: Find four or five different things that you can do and don't do one at any, you know, because that's how you burn out on the embroider. You're right. So you're going
casondra b: To do one for
Helena Rouhe: 10 or 15 minutes and then you're going to switch, even if you're like, No, I have to do this some more. You need to keep switching it up.
Helena Rouhe: Until you work through that wave. And then you're going to be kind of probably at some point, you're just going to be like, dude, why am I so tired all the time.
Helena Rouhe: Because you're
Helena Rouhe: Facing all of the stuff and you're you're you're writing some pretty big waves and you're actually really engaged in the process. And that's exhausting.
casondra b: And then at some point.
Helena Rouhe: Ways are not going to be as hard, they're not going to be as big and it won't feel quite so tiring and it'll get easier at some point.
Yeah.
casondra b: Yeah, I mean, that makes sense. I like that plan. Okay, I'm just like go yeah that's a lot of work. It is a lot of work, but you've
Helena Rouhe: Already been doing a lot of work in different ways. So you might as well just do it in a more productive way.
casondra b: Yeah, that's fair.
casondra b: Right, okay.
Helena Rouhe: Can we touch base really quickly on group.
casondra b: Yes.
Helena Rouhe: Did you see my email.
Helena Rouhe: I did. Okay, so what are your thoughts about this Thursday. Do you want to have group, do you want to do a follow up individual session, and then I'll just see you in group next Monday.
Helena Rouhe: Oh, what would you like to do
So,
casondra b: So I have a habit, I have a meeting with the doctor to get my medicine, so I won't let us in. So I don't think we need to meet on Thursday.
Helena Rouhe: How about you and I stay connected because if you would like to touch base on Thursday, you know, after the driving exam or just whatever like you can shoot me some sort of texts and let me know and we'll see if we can at least have a little hello
casondra b: Okay. That works just you and me. Yeah, okay.
Helena Rouhe: And maybe we don't do a group. Maybe we could do it a little bit earlier. We'll just kind of see, and if we can't make Thursday work will make do something on Friday, like
casondra b: Okay.
Helena Rouhe: We'll figure something out.
casondra b: Okay, I like
Helena Rouhe: You have the ability to text me. Do you have my phone number.
casondra b: Okay, let me give it to you.
Helena Rouhe: You'll still have to go through virtual clinic, if we do a zoom session, but at least, that way we know we can get a quick
Helena Rouhe: Things scheduled okay buddy.
casondra b: So it's 2080881894169416 okay
Helena Rouhe: Okay, so we'll figure something out. If you need to do something. And maybe it's just a quick little visit or it's just a hello touch base or we're good until Monday. This way you have that information.
casondra b: Okay. Sounds good.
Helena Rouhe: Alright, so we won't. We probably want to group, but I'll send you another email verifying that for sure, but for sure we'll have group on Monday.
Helena Rouhe: OK, OK. And then do you want to try and schedule something like a formal individual session or we'll just see how things go. This week, and then we'll play, and then we'll go from there.
Um,
casondra b: Yeah, let's see how things go. This week, and I mean I probably will want to do it. I just started
casondra b: A lot right now.
Helena Rouhe: So we don't need to figure it all out today. Okay.
Helena Rouhe: Okay so healthy distractions four or five of them 1015 minutes at the most.
Helena Rouhe: You're going to do great on your driving test. It is what it is. Yes. Okay. I'll see you when I see it.
casondra b: Thank you. You're welcome. Bye.